most of the options income traders on
our trading desk here at SMB trade a
strategy known as the butterfly
professional options income traders tend
to gravitate towards the butterfly
because it has excellent risk reward
characteristics and is easily modified
to adapt to market conditions and still
maintain strong profitability potential
the initial risk reward ratio of a
typical butterfly trade is very flexible
but typically ranges anywhere from about
three to one to as high as ten to one
depending on how this trade is initially
structured by the professional options
trader in this video I'm going to be
breaking down why the butterfly is so
attractive two options income traders so
if you're interested in learning about
the most popular initial setup on our
trading desk
then stick around because I think you're
gonna learn a lot from this video
[Music]
hi i'm seth pearlberg and I'm the head
trader of SMB capitals options trading
desk SMB capital is a proprietary
trading firm located in midtown
Manhattan and we provide capital for
options and equity traders from all over
the world trading both remotely and in
our offices here in New York City you'll
want to click our subscribe button right
now so that you don't miss any of our
free trading videos produced for the
trading and investment community okay so
the butterfly is a strategy that can
take many forms and the form that we'll
be covering this video is known as the
Iron Butterfly it's comprised of a short
call and a short put surrounded by a
long call and a long put so let's jump
right into an example so you'll begin to
understand what this is all about but
before I do that I want to make sure
you're familiar with all the terminology
involved in the trade now most of you
are probably familiar with index options
which are the options that we'll be
using in this example but there may be
some who just have a passing knowledge
of how they work so I'm gonna do a quick
basic review of the basics so that
you'll be able to understand this
strategy for those experienced options
guys out there don't worry this will be
quick and then we'll jump right back
into the guts of the lesson so you are
all probably familiar with how equity
options work with equity options a call
buys you the right to buy 100 shares of
a stock at the strike price of that
option any time before the option
expires and I put options option
entitles you to sell 100 shares of stock
at the strike price of the put before
that option expires but there are also
index options which works similarly to
equity options except that there's no
such thing as 100 shares of an index
like the S&P 500 so you can't really buy
or sell 100 shares of it into index but
what you can do is get paid in cash $100
per point if the index expires above the
strike price of an index call that you
buy or alternatively you'll be paid $100
per point for each point the index drops
below the strike price of your index put
so for example if the SPX index is
trading at 3,000 and you buy the 30 10
call if the SPX goes to
3015 you were to receive $500 in your
account if the index closes at three
thousand and nine or lower your call
expires worthless on the other side of
the ledger if you buy a twenty nine
eighty five foot and the market sells
off the 2975 you'd make a thousand
dollars but if the market just sold off
to twenty nine eighty five or higher the
put would actually expire worthless so
those are the basics of index option so
now here is an example of an Iron
Butterfly this example is constructed in
the SPX index and what you'll see is ten
short calls and ten short puts at twenty
eight fifteen which is where the index
was trading on this particular day so
those short calls and short puts are
right at the money and as protection we
buy ten long calls twenty-five points
above the market at twenty eight forty
and on the downside we buy ten long puts
twenty-five points below the market at
twenty seven ninety this formation short
calls and short puts at the money and to
equi distant long options equi distant
from each other and out of the money is
known as an Iron Butterfly now let's
really break down the risks and rewards
of each of these options so you
understand how and why this trade works
so let's first take a look at why we're
entering this trade and actually
receiving a credit of cash into our
account at the outset of the trade so as
you can see we pay six thousand nine
hundred fifty dollars for those ten
twenty eight forty calls at the top of
the trade because we purchased ten of
those for 6.95 cents and each point is
worth one hundred dollars as we
mentioned so the cost comes out to that
figure
similarly we sold ten of those at the
money twenty eight fifteen calls and we
received over eighteen thousand dollars
for those we also received over
seventeen thousand dollars for those ten
short 28:15 puts and finally we had to
pay almost ten thousand dollars for
those protective 2790 puts at the bottom
of the trade so if you do the math the
total cash we've received in our account
for entering into this trade is 19
thousand and four hundred dollars now
your broker will margin you fifty six
hundred dollars for this trade as that
is the worst possible loss that can be
suffered on the trade
so the
risk/reward on this trade is more than
three to one which appeals to most
traders okay so we're off to the races
on this trade and one way that you can
look at the Iron Butterfly trade is that
our goal is to have to give back as
little of that original
19400 as possible by the end of the
trade so let's see how this trade
actually turned out and more importantly
we'll explain why before we move to that
part of lesson though I wanted to
mention that we're running a to our free
intensive workshop at the moment so just
go ahead and click the link that should
be appearing now at the top right corner
of your screen that will open the free
registration page in a new window or you
can just go ahead over to options class
comm to register for this free intensive
workshop it's a rare opportunity for
retail traders and investors to learn
directly from Wall Street traders but
that's exactly what you'll be getting
through this free online workshop so
click the link to sign up now and don't
miss it so let's move forward to march
13th as the options are expiring and as
you can see the SPX closed that day at
28 1090 now as I mentioned earlier these
options are settled in cash after
they've expired so let's break down how
each option individually will settle so
you'll see why this trade did so well so
both calls the short 28 15 and the long
28 40 well those are above the money so
those calls have no value at settlement
they expire for zero now the short put
of 28 15 that one is four dollars and
ten cents in the money because the SPX
closed at 29 1090 on expiration day so
that means our account will be debited
40 100 dollars to extinguish our
obligation to the owner of that put as
you can see from the calculation finally
the 27 90 put well that is below the
market so that also expires worthless so
remember that our goal was to retain as
much of the original credit as possible
well in this case that went very well
because the only obligation we have to
return some of that original credit came
about as a result of that short 28 15
put so you can see we were able to walk
away with fifteen thousand four hundred
dollars in this case which against the
original 50
$600 margin on the trade resulted in a
15,000 $300 profit now please don't
think that every Iron Butterfly trade
will be so successful most will not be
and most professional traders would have
probably exited traded a bit earlier or
at least started to close out of their
position and cash in some of their chips
earlier than expiration itself but I did
want you to see the potential of the
Iron Butterfly trade and its mechanics
and provide you with an example of how
the profits are calculated at the end of
the trade so the purpose of this video
was to expose you to an introductory
lesson of how the Iron Butterfly trade
works and its mechanics there are a lot
of nuances to how you can trade the Iron
Butterfly and there are a myriad of ways
of modifying it during the course of the
trade in such a way as to adapt to
changing market conditions and prices
and will actually cover some of those
techniques in subsequent videos now just
to remind you as I said earlier if you
enjoyed the video and would like to
learn three more real-world option
strategies that our traders use
including the surprisingly simple
strategy that some of the greatest
investors in the world like Warren
Buffett use all the time plus an options
trading strategy that has a statistical
80 percent probability of profit month
in and month out plus an option strategy
that you can employ with a stock that
you like where you'll make your target
profit whether the stock goes up goes
nowhere or even goes down a small
percentage then you should check out the
free options class that we're currently
running just go ahead and click the link
that should be appearing now at the top
right corner of the screen that will
open the free registration page in a new
window or you can just go ahead over to
options class com2 register for this
free intensive workshop it's a rare
opportunity for retail traders and
investors to learn directly from Wall
Street traders but that's exactly what
you'll be getting through this free
online workshop so click the link to
sign up now and don't miss it now one
more thing I'd like you to do is to go
ahead and click our subscribe button so
you don't miss any of our trading videos
per district produced for the trading
and investing community and while you're
at it please please add your feedback in
the comment section for what videos
you'd like us to produce next as well
as what you found helpful from this
video that will help us to produce
high-quality videos from you in the
future so from all of us at SMB trade
well